# density_plots_bootstrap
Published work in current metabolomics, Urinary Exosomal Lipidomics Reveals Markers for Diabetic Nephropathy      July 2018      DOI: 10.2174/2213235X05666170607135244
#We used the reverse phase Liquid Chromatography Coupled Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS) method in the negative ionization mode. The diabetic nephropathy (n=10) and Diabetes mellitus (10) were included in the study. The extraction of features was done using “XCMS” package in R. The Bayesian regularized t-test was performed using Cyber-T online tool to identify the significant lipid molecules. The differential density distributions of lipids for two groups were studied using “sm” package in R. Results: The fold change analysis of lipid molecules present in exosomes suggests a significant enrichment of glycerol lipids, which could be involved in phospholipid and sphingolipid pathways. The hypothesis testing of similarity of diabetic nephropathy and diabetes mellitus phenotypes using the regularized Bayesian t-test showed 238 analytical peaks as significant with a p-value less than 0.05. There was no association between fold change and significance found. The density plots of PC, lyso-PC, PIP2, DG, and GM3 lipid showed significant difference in the diabetic nephropathy and diabetes mellitus groups by using bootstrap re-sampling method of hypothesis testing. The involvement of phospholipase C and phospholipase A2 was suggested in the patho-physiology of diabetic nephropathy. Conclusion: This study suggests the potential use of Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (UPLC) method together with Bayesian regularized t-test and bootstrap re-sampling hypothesis testing for integrated lipidomics analysis to identify marker lipids of small sample size.
